Title (DK): 

Title (EN): Advanced iOS Application Development

Points (ECTS): 10

Department: IMM

External Institution: Stanford, Shape, Making Fun, and others.

Course Comments: This represents a second course in a course series in
programming mobile devices (primarily, iOS and Android).

Number of students (min/max): 10/unlimited

Education: B.Eng/MSc

Schedule: Winter

Scope: recorded online lectures, interactive lab sessions with contact
time with instructor, occasional face-to-face lectures and small group
activities, regular exercises and homework assignments

Duration of course: 13-weeks

Examination: special day

Assessment: written examination and task(s)

Exam duration: short oral exam

Aid: all (written, internet, etc.)

Evaluation: pass/not pass, internal examiner

Previous course: none

Together with: none

Prerequisites: Preferably, knowledge of Objective-C.  Optionally,
knowledge of OO programming and basic and advanced programming
concepts such as data types, conditionals, loops, functions, etc. and
blocks, delegates, concurrency primitives, design patterns,
architecture styles, etc.  Example courses that would fulfill such
include, but are not limited to: 02101, 02102, 02102, 02312, 02314,
02319, 02324, 02350, and 02393.

General course description:

Advanced Application Development for iOS focuses on helping a driven,
independent student learn iOS programming from first principles, but
within the context of modern, advanced software engineering.  iOS
development is done using the Objective-C programming language, a
minimal OO programming language based upon the C programming language,
incorporating ideas from the OO language Smalltalk.  It is the primary
development language for Apple's operating systems, including OS X and
iOS.  This course includes material to introduce the student to the
Objective-C programming language, but the focus of the course is not
on learning the language, but on learning the APIs, software
engineering practices, and associated tools for general-purpose
iOS app development.

Learning objectives:

A student who has met the objectives of this course will be able to:

- program in the Objective-C programming language for iOS
- understand and explain the object model of Objective-C
- reflect upon the history of, and influences into, the design of
  Objective-C
- understand memory and performance issues that are particular to
  Objective-C
- use in an intermediate-to-advanced fashion the XCode IDE
- program medium-complexity apps for the iOS platform
- understand and explain the main subsystems and APIs of iOS
- perform analysis, design, implementation, and validation of iOS
  applications

Contents:

The Objective-C programming language; the XCode IDE; the core concepts
of Objective-C that differentiate it from C and other OO languages;
software engineering with Objective-C including build systems, version
control, configuration management, core APIs and frameworks; iOS
frameworks and APIs; App development-centric processes, methodologies,
concepts, and tools

Literature:

All are available via http://developer.apple.com/

Responsible:
Joseph Kiniry (jkin@imm.dtu.dk)

Home page: https://appfactory-dtu.podio.com/ios-course/

Notes:

- Course materials being reused from Stanford.

- Guest speakers may be participating from DK and US companies in the
mobile app space.
